Multiplayer Sample Game blog (#2326)
o3de/o3de.org: content/blog/posts/mps-blog.md

    white-space: nowrap;
}
.center {
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
}
</style>
  <tr>
    <th><center> Round 1 </th>
    <th><center> Round 2 </th>
    <th><center> Round 3 </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Yellow</td>
    <td><center> Blue</td>
    <td><center> Green</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Blue</td>
    <td><center> Green</td>
    <td><center> Red</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Green</td>
    <td><center> Red</td>
    <td><center> White</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

### PvE and Additional Content for the MPS

The original concept of the MPS included traps that the player needed to avoid, as well as other gameplay enhancing items such as a second weapon. Ultimately some of these were not implemented for the initial release. We did, however, create all of the assets needed to add these items to the game. We’ve created GitHub Issues for each of these items and we encourage the O3DE community to make use of these assets to expand the MPS.

* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Bubble Gun](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/228) 
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Energy Collector](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/225) 

> * [MPS Expansion: Implement the Defense Turret](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/224)

Reviewer: That is a good suggestion.

 <div class="row">
  <div class="column">
    <img src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image04.png" alt="entity Outliner" style="width:100%">
  </div>
  <div class="column">
    <img src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image05.png" alt="Network Match" style="width:150%">
  </div>
</div> 

**Network Match**
In this component you will set the length of the match and the point penalty applied to each character that is forced to respawn during the round.

* **Round Duration** - Here you will set the duration of each round. 
* **Total Rounds** - Here you will set the number of rounds. When all rounds are completed, the match ends, so this serves to dictate the length of each match as well.
* **Respawn Penalty Percentage** - This sets the percentage of the player’s accrued points that are lost when they are forced to respawn, either by losing all of their shields or falling out of the level. This number can be set to 0 if desired, eliminating any respawn penalty.

{{< image-width src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image06.png" alt="Gem Spawner." >}}

**Gem Spawner**
In this component you can setup the gem types, gem point values, and set which gems spawn in each round.

> * **Gem Spawnables -** Here you will assign a tag, select an asset for the gem, and set the number of points that are awarded when the gem is picked up.
>     * **Tag** - Gem Tag is determines the gem type to spawn. Gem tags are used in per round spawn tables as well as individual gem spawn points.
>     * **Asset** - Here you will assign the asset to use for the gem.
>     * **Score** - Here you will set the point value for each gem.
> * **Spawn Tables Per Round** - Here you will use Gem Tags from the gem spawnables table to setup gem spawns for each game round. Starting with round [1] you can set the type of gems that spawn during that round. You can use all gem types, or a subset. Note: Spawn Table [0] is not used.
>     * **Gem Tag Type** - Using the Gem Tag this specifies the gem that spawns
>     * **Gem Weight** - In the event the the spawn point (see below) calls two or more different Gem Tags, this value will influence which of those gems spawn. 
> * **Gem Spawn Tag** - This is used in Gem Spawn Points, see below.

Reviewer 2: Suggestions for voice and clarity.

```suggestion

* **Gem Spawnables -** In this property group, you can create gem spawnables and set a tag, asset reference, and point value for each one.
    * **Tag** - This value is referenced in the per round spawn tables as well as individual gem spawn points to spawn this gem spawnable.
    * **Asset** - Sets the asset to use for this gem spawnable.
    * **Score** - Sets the point value for this gem spawnable.
* **Spawn Tables Per Round** - Here you will use the Tags from the gem spawnables table to setup gem spawns for each game round. Starting with round [1] you can set the type of gems that spawn during that round. A round can include any or all of the available gem spawnables. Note: Spawn Table [0] is not used.
    * **Gem Tag Type** - Specifies the gem spawnable to spawn by referencing its tag.
    * **Gem Weight** - If a  spawn point (see below) calls two or more different gem spawnable tags, this value influences which of those gems spawn. 
* **Gem Spawn Tag** - Used in Gem Spawn Points to reference this Gem Spawner (see below).
```

{{< image-width src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image07.png" alt="Gem Spawn Tag" >}}

**Gem Spawn Points**
Gem Spawn Points should be created wherever you want a gem to appear in the level.

> * **Transform** - The location the gem will appear in the level.
> * **Tag** - Here you will enter the tags that correspond with the gems you want to spawn in this location. Entry [0] should be the Gem Spawn tag (set above in the Gem Spawn Tables Per Round component). Additional entries correspond with the gem(s) type you want to spawn in this location.. You can add more than one gem type here. When this happens, the Gem Weight will influence which gem spawns each time. e.g. If you add yellow and green gems and give each a weight of 1, there will be an even chance of either to spawn. If one is set to greater than 1, that gem is more likely to spawn.
> * **Script Canvas & Mesh & Material components** - By default, gem spawn points have no visual indicator in the editor as gems only appear in those positions when the game is running. To allow you to visualize gem spawn points in the editor we add the mesh component and assign the gem model and a material that matches the gem that will appear in game. Then, when the game starts, we hide the placeholder gem models using the script canvas component

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

```suggestion
* **Transform** - The location of the gem spawn point.
* **Tag** - The tag(s) that correspond with the gem(s) you want to spawn from this spawn point. You can add more than one gem type to the spawn point by adding entries and entering tag values from the Gem Spawnables table. When more than one gem spawnable tag is referenced, the **Gem Weight** value influences which gem spawns. For example, if you add yellow and green gem sapwnables and give each a weight of 1, there is an even chance of either to spawn. If one is set to greater than 1, that gem is more likely to spawn.
* **Script Canvas & Mesh & Material components** - By default, gem spawn points have no visual indicator in the editor as gems only appear when the game runs. To visualize gem spawn points in the editor, the Mesh and Material components assign the gem model and a material that matches the gem that appears in game. When the game runs, the script canvas component hides the gem visualization mesh.
```

---

> title: "Explore Multiplayer Gaming with the O3DE Multiplayer Sample - Now Available for Download!"

Reviewer 3: Do we have a Download plan? Do we just want to say "Now Available"?

Author: Applied in pending Commit

Reviewer: agreed

date: 2055-04-19
slug: mps-sample 
Author: Darrin McPherson
blog_img: "/images/blog/mps-sample/image01.png"
full_img: "/images/blog/mps-sample/image01.png"
---

> We are happy to announce the release of the O3DE Multiplayer Sample Game (MPS). The MPS is a fully open source mini game where players battle one another for dominance in a multi-tiered, under-construction, Starbase. This new sample game is intended to serve as an example for the O3DE community to use in the creation of other games as well as to demonstrate a number of features in O3DE, including networking, material canvas, asset creation best practices, and the setup of visual effects setup using the [PopcornFX gem](https://github.com/PopcornFX/O3DEPopcornFXPlugin), and audio effects using the [WWise gem](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/Gems/AudioEngineWwise). 

Reviewer 3: Do we want to mention that its a third-person shooter style game?

```suggestion
We are happy to announce the release of the O3DE Multiplayer Sample Game (MPS). The MPS is a fully open source mini-game where players battle one another for dominance in a multi-tiered, under-construction, Starbase. This new sample game is intended to serve as an example for the O3DE community to use in the creation of other games as well as to demonstrate a number of features in O3DE, including networking, material canvas, asset creation best practices, and the setup of visual effects setup using the [PopcornFX gem](https://github.com/PopcornFX/O3DEPopcornFXPlugin), and audio effects using the [WWise gem](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/tree/development/Gems/AudioEngineWwise). 
```

> The design intent of the MPS was to create something that would be fun to play, feature exciting exploration that rewarded player mastery, have clear risk vs. reward elements, and feature both player vs. environment, and player vs. player gameplay. We also wanted it to be highly configurable and expandable so that the O3DE community continue to iterate and add to it. From a technical angle, we also wanted a multi-faceted game that would provide a platform to test against when adding new systems to O3DE.

Reviewer 3: Would argue that theres no real depth, so "player mastery" seems to be a stretch.

Reviewer: I'd argue that learning the map, where gem placements are, which gems appear in each round and how to navigate through the level using teleporters and jump pads is player mastery. The more familiar you are with these things makes you a better player, outside of just having innate FPS shooter skills.

It is best to think of the MPS as a starting point and a toolbox of new features. We encourage you to get creative in how you expand it, adjust it or use its various features to create wholly different games. We look forward to seeing what you make of it!

## Partners & License Terms of Use

This sample was created through a partnership between AWS Gametech, Adobe, KitBash3D and the O3DF. 

* The use of the Y-bot character model as well as the animations contained in character_mps gem are subject to the license terms found here:  https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample-assets/tree/main/Gems/character_mps
* The use of Kitbash3D High Tech Streets Kit are subject to the license terms found [here](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample-assets/tree/main/Gems/kb3d_mps)

## Installing and Running the O3DE Multiplayer Sample Game

> In order to setup and build the MPS you will need to get follow the setup instructions for these two repositories:

Reviewer 3: Maybe highlight the MPS README as a link as it has full instructions for Linux and Windows?

If this goes out while stabilization is live, then technically the head/active branch is stablization/2305.

Reviewer: agreed!

1. [Multiplayer Sample Assets](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample-assets#readme)

> 2. [Multiplater Sample Assets Development](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. [Multiplayer Sample Assets Development](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/development/README.md)
```

## Multiplayer Sample Game Design

> {{< image-width src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image02.png" width="100%" alt="MPS Game Design." >}} The MPS is a combination of player vs. player and collection gameplay. You and other players compete to earn as many points as you can before the match ends. Points are earned by picking up the gems that spawn around the level. Additionally, you and the rest of the players have an energy shield that protects you. When you shoot other players and when they shoot you, your shield is damaged. Once your shields are depleted, you will respawn, but at the cost of some of your accumulated points.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{{< image-width src="/images/blog/mps-sample/image02.png" width="100%" alt="MPS Game Design." >}} The MPS is a combination of player vs. player and player vs. environment. You and other players compete to earn as many points as you can before the match ends. Points are earned by picking up the gems that spawn around the level. Additionally, you and the rest of the players have an energy shield that protects you. When you shoot other players and when they shoot you, your shield is damaged. Once your shields are depleted, you will respawn, but at the cost of some of your accumulated points. If you cause another player to respawn, they will drop some of their gems for you to collect.
```

Each match is comprised of multiple rounds that last 2 minutes each (defaults to 3). The number and duration of rounds is easily configurable in the match controller component. Gems respawn between rounds and each round can spawn different types of gems. By default, the per round gem spawn tables look like this:
 
<table class="center"><style>
table {
    width: 400px;
    border: 1px solid #CCC;
}
td {
    border: 1px solid #CCC;
}
.small {
    width: 1px;
}
.big {
    width: 50%;
}
td > div {
    white-space: nowrap;
}
.center {
  margin-left: auto;
  margin-right: auto;
}
</style>
  <tr>
    <th><center> Round 1 </th>
    <th><center> Round 2 </th>
    <th><center> Round 3 </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Yellow</td>
    <td><center> Blue</td>
    <td><center> Green</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Blue</td>
    <td><center> Green</td>
    <td><center> Red</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><center> Green</td>
    <td><center> Red</td>
    <td><center> White</td>
  </tr>
</table> 

### PvE and Additional Content for the MPS

> The original concept of the MPS included traps that the player needed to avoid, as well as other gameplay enhancing items such as a second weapon, a jump pad and a teleporter platform. Ultimately some of these were not implemented for the initial release. We did, however, create all of the assets needed to add these items to the game. We’ve created GitHub Issues for each of these items and we encourage the O3DE community to make use of these assets to expand the MPS.

Reviewer 3: This is out of date, we now have:

* Jump pads
* Defense Turrets
* Malfunctioning shield generators

Community can extend these or implement other traps

Reviewer: we haven't done defense turrets. we added space cannons, but i didn't add here because we didn't have the asset at the time. 

@aFinchy please remove these from the list of GHIs - 
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Jump Pad](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/227)
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Malfunctioning Shield Generator](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/226)

Also pls update this section to read: 
The original concept of the MPS included traps that the player needed to avoid, as well as other gameplay enhancing items such as a second weapon. Ultimately some of these were not implemented for the initial release. We did, however, create all of the assets needed to add these items to the game. We’ve created GitHub Issues for each of these items and we encourage the O3DE community to make use of these assets to expand the MPS.

* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Bubble Gun](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/228) 
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Jump Pad](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/227)
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Malfunctioning Shield Generator](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/226)
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Energy Collector](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/225) 
* [MPS Expansion: Implement the Defense Turret](https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/issues/224)

> ## Multiplayer Sample Configuration

Reviewer 3: IMHO this is technical detail and should either:

* Be reduced in volume and link to the docs that provide more details
* Or be removed.

Reviewer: This was modeled after another blog that had these types of implementation details. These instructions are also present here: https://github.com/o3de/o3de-multiplayersample/blob/stabilization/2305/Documentation/GamplayConfiguration.md so if you feel strongly that we should remove this section, we can.
